h1. Ruby I18n

Ruby Internationalization and localization solution.

Features:

* translation and localization
* interpolation of values to translations (Ruby 1.9 compatible syntax)
* pluralization (CLDR compatible)
* flexible defaults
* bulk lookup
* lambdas as translation data
* custom key/scope separator
* custom exception handlers
* extensible architecture with a swappable backend

Experimental, pluggable features:

* lambda pluralizers stored as translation data
* RFC4647 compliant locale fallbacks (with optional RFC4646 locale validation)
* backend cache

For more information and lots of resources see: "http://rails-i18n.org/wiki":http://rails-i18n.org/wiki

h2. Fast backend

This fork includes a @Fast@ backend that optimizes for the most common lookups and makes them about 20x (for @t(:'foo.bar.baz')@) or 6x (for @t(:'foo.bar.baz', :a=>'A', :b=>'B')@) times faster than the original @Simple@ backend. The @Fast@ backend is slightly less memory efficient and is slower to @reload!@, but should be a great choice for production environment.

h3. Branches

"2-3-stable":http://github.com/thedarkone/i18n/tree/2-3-stable branch is for the old @I18n@ gem shipped with Rails 2.3
"master":http://github.com/thedarkone/i18n/tree/master is for the current @I18n@ gem version

h3. Usage

Clone the repo as a plugin into your Rails app.

<pre>
  # in initializer or enviroment.rb
  I18n.backend = I18n::Backend::Fast.new
</pre>

h2. Authors

* "Sven Fuchs":http://www.artweb-design.de
* "Joshua Harvey":http://www.workingwithrails.com/person/759-joshua-harvey
* "Stephan Soller":http://www.arkanis-development.de
* "Saimon Moore":http://saimonmoore.net
* "Matt Aimonetti":http://railsontherun.com
* "thedarkone":http://github.com/thedarkone (@Fast@ backend)

h2. License

MIT License. See the included MIT-LICENCE file.